Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today, I'm
going to explain an American-Australian
science fiction thriller film called “2:22.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
The movie starts as a man walks through the Grand
Central Station, New York, with a gun in his hand.
People around him notice the gun and start
running away. He walks to another man who
seems to be protecting a girl. Both the men point
guns at each other when the security stops them.
The camera pans to a clock, which
shows that the time is exactly 2:22.
Then, we can hear gunshots.
Turns out it was just a dream. A man named
Dylan wakes up from his dream, and progresses
with his routine; listening to the news. The
news talks about a star called Hamlin that died
out 30 years ago, but its light is reaching the
Earth 30 years later, and that this supernova will
have effects on the Earth and its inhabitants.
Dylan is then shown on his way to work,
riding a bike and heading to the Grand
Central Station to take the train. He works
as an air traffic controller with serious
talent in visualizing patterns. After work, he
goes to a club...drinking with his co-workers,
and receives a ticket to an aerial ballet
as a gift for his upcoming birthday.
The following day, at work, he starts to
see constellation patterns in front of him.
He starts to hallucinate about his recurring dream
and cannot communicate with airplanes. He looks
at the clock to see it is exactly 2:22. Looking
closely, he realizes that the clock has stopped.
Dylan comes back to his senses only when his
colleagues call him. Dylan notices that the planes
are about to crash into each other due to his
pause. He quickly reports to the pilots and saves
them from crashing by an inch. The passengers
inside the planes are relieved. Dylan notices
that the clock has started working again. Due to
this incident, he is suspended for four weeks.
The day after he was suspended, he attends the
aerial ballet, where he sees a woman named Sarah,
and is stunned by her beauty. After the ballet
is over, everyone is at the after-party. Dylan
approaches Sarah and introduces himself. They go
to a restaurant and start talking. Dylan tells
Sarah that his father was a pilot and that he also
trained to be a pilot but could never become one,
as he was afraid of flying. Sarah tells him
that she works at the Howard Pace Art Gallery.
He also tells her about being suspended from
work, and he finds out that Sarah was on the plane
that almost collided with the other aircraft at
2.22pm. Dylan felt apologetic about the incident,
but Sarah was instead thankful towards Dylan for
saving her life. As they depart, they admit to
each other that for a "first date", they felt a
deep connection and it felt like they had known
each other forever.
The following day, while on the way to the
Grand Central, Dylan notices the
same happenings as the day before;
siren, a womanlaugh, construction
sounds, a man saying
"May I help you", and glass breaking. As he
arrives at the Grand Central Station, at 2:21 pm,
he sees a businessman reading his newspaper, a
couple hugging each other, a line of preschoolers
where the last child in line drops something,
and a pregnant woman under the clock. At exactly
2:22 pm, the window of the station shatters.
He then goes to meet Sarah and asks her out to
an early dinner. He goes to Central Park with
her for ice cream. Sarah reveals that she
had stopped dancing because of an injury.
Dylan feels bad, so to cheer her up, he plays
a song and starts dancing in front of her.
She joins him and the two happily dance
together in the middle of a busy park.
In the end, they kiss. They go to
Dylan's apartment and make love.
The next morning, they lie on the bed and cuddle.
Dylan asks Sarah where she got her necklace from,
to which Sarah replies that it was from her
ex-boyfriend; Jonas, who happens to be the main
artist of the gallery at which she works. Dylan
asks when is Sarah's birthday and they find out
that both of them were born on the same day; April
18, 1986, and they are both turning 30 within a
week's time. Dylan suddenly hears a car crash on
the road below his apartment at exactly 9:15 am,
and he tells Sarah that it is the 3rd day in
a row that the same incident had happened.
Dylan then takes a cab... going to Grand
Central. As the driver takes the shorter route,
Dylan tells him to stop the cab and notices
again the same pattern of siren, a woman laugh,
construction sounds, and a man saying "May I
help you". Dylan then shouts for the cab to stop,
and this infuriates the cab driver, who turns
around to tell Dylan off...for shouting at him.
Just then, another car hits them both, causing the
breaking of the cab's glass windows. Even though
Dylan is injured, he goes to the Grand Central
Station and sees the exact same pattern of events.
A businessman stands with a newspaper, an older
couple hugs, a group of kids walks in a line when
the last kid drops something, and lastly,
a pregnant woman stands under the clock.
He tells Sarah of these repeating
patterns, but with different people
carrying out the same actions.
Sarah does not believe Dylan,
but helps to clean his wounds from the car
accident. Dylan goes home and starts writing
all the events of his day...starting from 9.10
am. First, he writes about the drop of water,
then a bug dying, and a plane flying overhead.
The following day, Dylan goes to the top of his
apartment building to see if the pattern repeats
itself. He waits for the drop of water like
yesterday, but the sky is clear. However, exactly
at 9:10 again, a drop falls onto his notebook.
Surprised, he closes the notebook and when he
opens it, there is a squashed bug on the page.
Then an airplane flies over him. The pattern has
repeated itself; Dylan almost cannot believe it.
Dylan goes to the gallery looking for Sarah,
and realizes that the gallery was having an
exhibition with Jonas' art piece as the main
exhibition. Jonas is Sarah's ex-boyfriend;
he has created a light hologram exhibition about
the Grand Central Station, and Dylan sees that it
is exactly like the events that he has experienced
in the past few days. A businessman reading his
newspaper, a couple embracing each other, a line
of preschoolers, and a pregnant woman under the
clocks. Dylan assumes that Jonas is stalking
him, as only Dylan knows about these events.
He attacks Jonas, resulting in a brawl; he
questions Jonas on whether he was stalking him.
In the audience... is the owner of the
Keifer Gallery; he applauds saying it was
a great idea to enact the murder at the Grand
Central Station that happened 30 years ago.
Sarah apologizes to Jonas about Dylan's attack,
and puts her relationship with Dylan on hold.
Later that day, Dylan texts Sarah to beg for her
forgiveness. In the meantime, he finds a stack
of envelopes hidden in his home. He finds out a
man named Jake Redman had written these letters
to a woman named Evelyn. Upon investigation,
Dylan finds out that Jake Redmond lived in
his apartment 30 years ago...back in 1987.
He also finds an article online and finds out
about the murder that happened thirty years ago
in grand central. Jake Redmond was the murderer;
he killed his lover, Evelyn, and a
police officer in the middle of the
Grand Central.
Evelyn was even pregnant at that time. The
murder occurred exactly at 2:22. Jake
killed Evelyn out of jealousy because
Evelyn was in love with the police officer,
Noah Marks, whom Jake killed that day too.
He also finds that Jake, Evelyn, him,
and Sarah share the same birthday.
In fact, he and Sarah were born on the day
Jake and Evelyn died. Dylan connects the dots,
and figures out that he and Sarah are Jake and
Evelyn in another life. Then he finds Evelyn’s
address in the letters, and visits her home.
Dylan meets Evelyn’s sister who tells her that
Evelyn loved Jake a lot, so she thinks the theory
that Jake killed Evelyn because she loved someone
else is false. She also informs him that Noah,
the police officer, was in love with Evelyn too.
When Dylan gets back home, he links
the constellation that is taking place
after thirty years and their situation. He
sees that the three stars involved in the
constellation are actually Jake, Evelyn, and
Noah. Currently, it is Dylan, Sarah, and Jonas.
Since the constellation has returned, their fate
has returned too. He texts Sarah about what he
has been seeing, and asks her to meet him. Sarah
is in the gallery looking at Jonas’s holograms.
She tells Jonas about Dylan’s findings, but
Jonas dismisses it as Dylan’s delusions.
Later that day, Dylan is in his
apartment when Sarah visits him.
She sees him distressed and tries to console
him. Dylan tells her that since the following
day is their birthday, there is a chance
he can kill her... like Jake killed Evelyn.
So, he tells her to go away and never
meet him again for their own good.
After Sarah leaves, Dylan loses control and starts
breaking things around his apartment. He then goes
to the terrace with the intention of jumping
off the building, but he changes his mind.
Sarah, on the other hand, goes to Jonas’s
office and tells him everything that happened.
Jonas offers to take her on vacation
to get her mind off Dylan.
The following morning, Dylan realizes that the
water drop, the bug, the plane, and everything
that happens in the pattern...happened to Jake the
day he died. The pattern has been trying to inform
Dylan that Sarah is in danger. After figuring this
out, Dylan runs to save her. He calls her several
times on the way but she doesn’t pick up.
So, he goes to Jonas’s office. There,
he is shocked to see a wall filled with
Sarah’s pictures and several holograms of her.
He realizes that Jonas is obsessed with
Sarah. He also finds an empty case of a gun
and is now sure that Sarah is in danger.
He rushes to the station to find her.
Meanwhile, Jonas and Sarah are in the Grand
Central station buying the tickets for their
journey. Jonas tells Sarah to wait for him
under the clock. History is repeating itself.
Jonas returns to her with the tickets. He
too realizes that they are living their past.
Sarah tells him that she cannot go with
him because she is in love with Dylan.
Agitated, he asks Sarah to tell him that she
loves him, but Sarah refuses just as Dylan
arrives at the Station. Jonas, thinking that
Sarah called him there, gets enraged and makes
his way towards Dylan with a gun. Sarah begins to
see the same characters that Dylan had described.
The businessman, the couple who
hugs, the children, and so on.
She comes to realize that
everything that Dylan said was true.
But that also means the pregnant woman
under the clock is Sarah herself.
Jonas first points his gun towards Dylan, and then
he points to Sarah; saying that if he couldn't
have her, neither could Dylan. Dylan shields Sarah
just in time; but he gets shot at 2:21 pm.
The events from 30 years ago plays out, and at
exactly 2:22 pm, Jonas gets shot by the police
who have followed Dylan there. Dylan falls in
Sarah's arms and momentarily closes his eyes.
He has visions of Jake and Evelyn being
affectionate. Luckily, he does not die.
Sarah then looks at the clock; it is 2.23 pm; they
manage to survive, and fate has changed.
We finally get to know that in the past life
too, the police officer Noah was the one who
killed Evelyn and Jake, but the police had turned
the story around to save their reputation.
The dying star, Hamlin, mentioned at the
start of the movie finally disappears but
a new star is immediately reborn.
In the ending scene, it is shown that
Dylan and Sarah are living happily, with
Dylan having finally overcome his fear of
flying and is now a pilot; and Sarah smiling
affectionately at their baby in the cradle.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave a like
to help the channel out.
Thank you for watching.